React Typescript Redux (#1239)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-08-29-react-typescript-redux.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: Use Redux to Manage Authenticated State in a React App
author: gabi-dombrowski
by: contractor
communities: [javascript]
description: "In this post, we'll create a project that manages authenticated state in a React application using TypeScript and state management. We'll compare state management options in React, and provide examples on when to use Redux, local state using useState, and React Context."
tags: [javascript, typescript, react, redux, authentication]
tweets:
  - "Overwhelmed by state management options in #react? Learn about Redux, useState, and React Context and when to use each in this post by @gabzilladev! 🎉"
image: blog/react-typescript-redux/social.jpg
type: conversion
github: https://github.com/oktadev/okta-react-typescript-redux-example
---

There are a myriad of state management options available for React. React provides the option of using the built-in [Context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) for when you have a nested tree of components that share a state. There is also a built-in [useState hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) that will allow you to set local state for a component.

> For more complex scenarios where you might need a single source of truth that is shared across large sections of your application and is frequently changing, you might want to consider using a more robust state management library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more complex scenarios where you need a single source of truth that changes frequently and is shared across large sections of your application, consider using a more robust state management library.
```
Terser and more direct. Hopefully, I didn't change what you meant to say.

This walkthrough will get you started with a basic setup using Okta's redirect model to manage authenticated state and user profile information within a React app. It provides examples on when to use [Redux](https://redux.js.org/), local state using React's `useState` hook, or React Context. 

**Prerequisites**

> As of the time of this publication, Node >= 14.0.0 and npm >= 5.6 are required for Create React App. You can check for the latest required versions at [https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html](https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of the time of this publication, Create React App requires Node >= 14.0.0 and npm >= 5.6. You can check for the latest required versions at [https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html](https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html).
```
changing passive to active voice

**NOTE:** Redux also recommends you install the [Chrome React DevTools Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en).
{% include toc.md %}
## Create the React app using TypeScript

> We'll get started with the built-in React template for [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app) that uses Redux and Typescript. This includes the recommended Redux Toolkit and Redux's integration with React components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll get started with the built-in React template for [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app) that uses Redux and TypeScript. This includes the recommended Redux Toolkit and Redux's integration with React components.
```
consistent CamelCase :)

1. First, run:
```bash
npx create-react-app okta-react-redux --template redux-typescript
```

**NOTE:** Our demo repository uses React `^18.2.0` and React Scripts `5.0.1`.

2. Then we'll add the Redux core by running:
```bash
npm add redux@4.2
```

> 3. Redux provides its own types, but we'll want to add our `react-redux` types since we're using Typescript:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Redux provides its own types, but we'll want to add our `react-redux` types since we're using TypeScript:
```

```bash
npm add -D @types/react-redux@7.1
```

4. We'll also need routing (and routing types) for our app:
```bash
npm install react-router-dom@5
npm add -D @types/react-router-dom@5.3
```

5. To start your app, run:
```bash
npm start
```

## How Redux works

> To update state using Redux, an action is dispatched and the store then uses the root reducer to calculate a new state as compared to the old state, which then notifies the proper subscribers of the update so that the UI can properly be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update state using Redux, an action is dispatched. Then the store uses the root reducer to calculate a new state as compared to the old state, which notifies the proper subscribers of the update, so that the UI can be updated properly.
```
Splitting a long sentence into two sentences for readability/comprehension

> After the UI for your application is initially rendered using an initial global Redux store created using the root reducer, a typical redux workflow goes like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A typical Redux workflow goes like this. First, the UI for your application is rendered using an initial global Redux store, created with the root reducer:
```
terser, shorter sentences. Avoids word repetition (initial/initially, using/using)

> 1. An event in the UI such as a user button interaction happens in your app which triggers an action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. An event occurs in the UI of your app, such as a user button interaction, which triggers an action.
```
terser

2. The action is then dispatched to the store and an event handler that handles the needed logic makes the changes to your global state.
3. The store notifies subscribed parts in the UI that there has been an update.

> 4. Those subscribed parts then check to see if a re-render is needed to update whatever needs updating in the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Those subscribed parts then check to see if a re-render is necessary to update the UI as needed. 
```
terser, avoids word repetition

**NOTE:** The built-in Redux template we used includes a great counter example of how Redux works. You can take a closer look at [Redux's explanation of the counter example](https://redux.js.org/introduction/examples/).

> ### Useful terms to know when working with Redux

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Useful terms for working with Redux
```
terser

**[Action](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-1-overview-concepts#reducers)**

> An Action is an JS object with a type and a payload. It describes an actionable interaction within your application, and typically is named something like `createUser` or `addToDo`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An **action** is a JS object with a type and a payload. It describes an actionable interaction within your app, and typically is named something like `createUser` or `addToDo`.
```
Since the docs don't uppercase "action" i'm doing what they do in the docs instead - bolding.

> **[Action Creators](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-1-overview-concepts#reducers)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**[Action Creators](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-1-overview-concepts#action-creators)**
```
wrong anchor tag

> Action Creators can be used to dynamically create actions. NOT IN APP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Action creators** can be used to dynamically create actions. NOT IN APP
```
I'm not sure what "not in app" means here. Does it mean: **Action creators** can be used to dynamically create actions, but they don't work inside an application!" ? 
Style guide recommends against using ALL CAPS ;-)  - for emphasis, i'd recommend bolding instead, but I'm not sure you need it here. Does the exclamation point work for you ?

Author: @havi Oops, forgot to expand on this. There are no action creators in the demo app, so wanted some feedback on whether we think that's ok or needs to be called out.

Reviewer 2: IMO I think we should include the term here and then call out that we aren't showing an example of this (see referenced links at the end of the post to read about it!) sort of thing.

**[Reducers](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-1-overview-concepts#reducers)**

> A Reducer returns the proper current state with applicable changes as compared to the previous state when it's passed a new state. They work similarly to the Array.reduce method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When passed a new state, a **reducer** returns the proper current state by comparing it with the previous state, and making the applicable changes. Reducers work similarly to the `Array.reduce` method.
```
terseness & clarity. Please make sure I didn't change the meaning. :)

> **[Redux Store](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/fundamentals/part-4-store#redux-store)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**[Redux store](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/fundamentals/part-4-store#redux-store)**
```
sentence case, we don't need to uppercase "Store"

> The current live state for your app lives in the Redux Store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current live state for your app lives in the **Redux store**.
```

**[Selectors](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-1-overview-concepts#selectors)**

> A selector returns a piece of the live Redux state as stored in the live Redux store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **selector** returns a piece of the live Redux state as stored in the live Redux store.
```

**[Dispatch](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-1-overview-concepts#dispatch)**

> A Dispatch is a method with triggers an action that in turn updates the Redux store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Dispatch** is a method that triggers an action, which in turn updates the Redux store.
```

## Add authentication and create routes

1. Modify the existing `App.tsx` file:
{% raw %}
```tsx
import "./App.css";
import { OktaAuth, toRelativeUrl } from "@okta/okta-auth-js";
import { BrowserRouter as Router, Route } from "react-router-dom";
import { LoginCallback, Security } from "@okta/okta-react";
import Home from "./components/home";
import { useCallback } from "react";

const oktaAuth = new OktaAuth({
  issuer: process.env.REACT_APP_OKTA_ISSUER,
  clientId: process.env.REACT_APP_OKTA_CLIENTID,
  redirectUri: process.env.REACT_APP_OKTA_BASE_REDIRECT_URI + "/login/callback",
});

function App() {
  const restoreOriginalUri = useCallback(
    async (_oktaAuth: OktaAuth, originalUri: string) => {
      window.location.replace(
        toRelativeUrl(originalUri || "/", window.location.origin)
      );
    },
    []
  );

  return (
    <Router>
      <Security oktaAuth={oktaAuth} restoreOriginalUri={restoreOriginalUri}>
        <Route path="/" exact={true} component={Home} />
        <Route path="/login/callback" component={LoginCallback} />
      </Security>
    </Router>
  );
}

export default App;
```
{% endraw %}

> ## Add Initial State, Create Redux Slice, and Create Selector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add initial state, create Redux slice, and create selector
```
Headings take sentence case, not title case

};

export const userProfileSlice = createSlice({
  name: "userProfile",
  initialState,
  reducers: {
    setUserProfile: (state, action) => {
      return {
        email: action.payload.payload.email,
        given_name: action.payload.payload.given_name,
        family_name: action.payload.payload.family_name,
      };
    },
  },
});

export const selectUserProfile = (state: RootState): IUserProfile =>
  state.userProfile;

export const { setUserProfile } = userProfileSlice.actions;
export default userProfileSlice.reducer;
```

3. In the `src/app/store.ts` file, add the created Redux slice to the Redux store:
```ts
import { configureStore, ThunkAction, Action } from "@reduxjs/toolkit";
import counterReducer from "../features/counter/counterSlice";
import userProfileReducer from "../redux-state/userProfileSlice";

export const store = configureStore({
  reducer: {
    counter: counterReducer,
    userProfile: userProfileReducer,
  },
});

export type AppDispatch = typeof store.dispatch;
export type RootState = ReturnType<typeof store.getState>;
export type AppThunk<ReturnType = void> = ThunkAction<
  ReturnType,
  RootState,
  unknown,
  Action<string>
>;
```

> ## Show user profile information using state management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Show user profile information with state management
```

  const { oktaAuth, authState } = useOktaAuth();
  const [userProfileExtra, setUserProfileExtra] = useState<UserProfileExtra>();

  const login = async () => oktaAuth.signInWithRedirect();

  useEffect(() => {
    if (authState?.isAuthenticated) {
      oktaAuth
        .getUser()
        .then((userInfo: UserProfileExtra) => {

          dispatch(
            setUserProfile({
              type: "userProfile/userProfileSet",
              payload: userInfo,
            })
          );

          setUserProfileExtra({
            locale: userInfo.locale,
            preferred_username: userInfo.preferred_username,
          });
        })
        .catch((err) => {
          console.error(err);
        });
    }
  }, [authState?.isAuthenticated, dispatch, oktaAuth]);

  return (authState?.isAuthenticated && userProfileExtra) ? (
    <UserContext.Provider value={userProfileExtra}>
      <Dashboard />
    </UserContext.Provider>
  ) : (
    <div className="section-wrapper">
      <div className="title">Use Redux to Manage Authenticated State in a React App</div>
      <button className="button" onClick={login}>
        Login
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

> Here we use React's [useEffect hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-effect.html) to set the global user state we set up earlier using `setUserProfile` and the local user state we set up in this file with [useState](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-state.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we use React's [`useEffect` hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-effect.html) to set the global user state we set up earlier with `setUserProfile` and the local user state we set up in this file with [`useState`](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-state.html).
```

> Once the user is authenticated, we're using the [getUser method](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js#getuser) that is built into `oktaAuth` to fetch the user profile information. If the user is not yet authenticated, we render the login page instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the user is authenticated, we rely on the [`getUser` method](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js#getuser) that is built into `oktaAuth` to fetch the user profile information. If the user is not yet authenticated, we render the login page instead.
```

import { useSelector } from "react-redux";
import { selectUserProfile } from "../redux-state/userProfileSlice";
import "../App.css";
import { useState } from "react";
import UserProfile from "./userProfile";
import UserProfileExtra from "./userProfileExtra";

export default function Dashboard() {
  const { oktaAuth } = useOktaAuth();
  const userProfile = useSelector(selectUserProfile);
  const [isExpanded, setIsExpanded] = useState(false);

  const logout = async () => oktaAuth.signOut();

  return (
    <div className="section-wrapper">
      <div className="title">Dashboard</div>
      <div className="profile-greeting">{`Hi ${userProfile.given_name}!`}</div>
      <div className="profile-more-wrapper">
        {isExpanded && (
          <>
            <UserProfile />
            <UserProfileExtra />
          </>
        )}
      </div>
      {
        <div
          className="profile-toggle"
          onClick={() => setIsExpanded(!isExpanded)}
        >
          {isExpanded ? "Show less" : "Show more"}
        </div>
      }
      <div>
        <button className="button" onClick={logout}>
          Logout
        </button>
      </div>
    </div>
  );
}
```

> In this file, we're using a Redux selector to get the current state for `userProfile` to then render those values in our component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this file, we use a Redux selector to get the current state for `userProfile` to then render those values in our component.
```

> We're also setting an `isExpandable` property that toggles whether or not additional user profile information is hidden or shown. This is another example of how to use local state using the `useState` hook. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also set an `isExpandable` property that toggles whether or not additional user profile information is hidden or shown. This is another example of how to use local state with the `useState` hook. 
```

#### userProfile.tsx
```tsx
import { useSelector } from "react-redux";
import { selectUserProfile } from "../redux-state/userProfileSlice";
import "../App.css";

export default function UserProfile() {
  const userProfile = useSelector(selectUserProfile);

  return (
    <>
      <div>
        <span>Email: </span>
        {userProfile.email}
      </div>
      <div>
        <span>Last name: </span>
        {userProfile.family_name}
      </div>
    </>
  );
}
```

> In this file, we are using the Redux selector we created prior to get the current state for the state slice that includes the user profile information we set earlier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this file, we use the Redux selector created earlier to get the current state for the state slice. This includes the user profile information we set earlier.
```

#### userProfileExtra.tsx
``` tsx
import "../App.css";
import { useContext } from "react";
import { UserContext } from "./home";

export default function UserProfileExtra() {
  const userProfileExtra = useContext(UserContext);

  return (
    <>
      <div>
        <span>Username: </span>
        {userProfileExtra.preferred_username}
      </div>
      <div>
        <span>Locale: </span>
        {userProfileExtra.locale}
      </div>
    </>
  );
}
```

> Here, another way to manage state is demonstrated. This time, React's built-in `useContext` hook is used to get what we set prior in the `UserContext` we created with React's `createContext` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we demonstrate another way to manage state. This time, React's built-in `useContext` hook is used to get what we set earlier in the `UserContext` we created with React's `createContext` method.
```
changing passive voice to active

}

.section-wrapper {
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
  height: calc(100vh - 100vh * 0.33);
  margin-top: 56px;
}

.button {
  min-width: 64px;
  height: 36px;
  border-color: #6200ee;
  color: #6200ee;
  background-color: transparent;
  border-style: solid;
  padding: 0 15px 0 15px;
  border-width: 1px;
  font-size: 0.875rem;
  font-weight: 700;
  letter-spacing: 0.0892857143em;
  text-transform: uppercase;
  border-radius: 4px;
  border-style: solid;
  padding: 0 15px 0 15px;
  border-width: 1px;
}

.button:hover {
  cursor: pointer;
  background-color: rgb(112, 76, 182, 0.1);
}

.title {
  font-size: 48px;
  text-align: center;
}

.profile-greeting {
  font-size: 32px;
}

.profile-toggle {
  font-size: 16px;
  text-decoration: underline;
  color: #6200ee;
}

.profile-more-wrapper {
  height: 360px;
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
}

.profile-more-wrapper > div {
  padding: 16px;
}

.profile-more-wrapper span {
  font-size: 20px;
  font-weight: 500;
}
```

Our app is now complete! Next we'll run it to log a user in and render our applicable states.

> ## Running the App

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Running the app
```
sentence case

To start the app, run `npm start`.

After your app starts and you've clicked `login` on the home screen, you'll be redirected to the Okta-hosted sign-in page. Here, enter your user credentials. Once your user is authenticated, the dashboard component we created will render.

{% img blog/react-typescript-redux/dashboard.jpg alt:"Screenshot of dashboard." width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

> If you recall, the value for the user's `given_name` is part of the Redux slice from our created selector `selectUserProfile`. Clicking `Show more` or `Show less` toggles our local state for `isExpanded` in the dashboard component to show or hide additional user profile info, which is a mix of other values from the `userProfileSlice` and additional values from the `UserContext` we created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you recall, the value for the user's `given_name` is part of the Redux slice from our created selector `selectUserProfile`. Clicking `Show more` or `Show less` toggles our local state for `isExpanded` in the dashboard component. This allows us to show or hide additional user profile info, which is a mix of values from the `userProfileSlice` and additional values from the `UserContext` we created.
```
two sentences. please verify for accuracy

## Learn more about authentication, React, and Redux

> In this post, we used Okta's redirect model to manage authenticated state and user profile information within a React app. We also saw examples on when to use Redux, local state using React's `useState` hook, or React Context. As you scale your apps, you might find that a mix of all three solutions is the right choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post, we used Okta's redirect model to manage authenticated state and user profile information within a React app. We also looked at examples for when to use Redux, local state using React's `useState` hook, or React context. As you scale your apps, you might find that a mix of all three solutions is the right choice.
```

You may also want to go further to handle more complex state management logic or add more customizations to your apps. The following links should help with potential next steps.

**[A Developer's Guide to Session Management in React](/blog/2021/06/16/session-mgmt-react)**

**[Build a Secure React Application with JWTs and Redux](/blog/2019/08/12/build-secure-react-application-redux-jwt)**

**[Build a React App with Styled Components](/blog/2020/03/16/react-styled-components)**

**[Custom URL Domain](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/main/)**

> Use a custom URL for the Okta sign in widget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a custom URL for the Okta Sign-In Widget.
```
Official Okta product name gets capitalized

**[Open ID Connect](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/build-sso-integration/openidconnect/main/)**

Set up Single Sign-On for your Okta integrated app.

> **[Customize Tokens Returned From Okta](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/customize-tokens-returned-from-okta/main/)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**[Customize tokens returned from Okta](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/customize-tokens-returned-from-okta/main/)**
```

> Add custom claims to your user access tokens that add custom information or attributes stored in a user profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add custom claims to your user access tokens to add custom information or attributes stored in a user profile.
```

> **[Redux Async Logic](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-5-async-logic)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**[Redux async logic](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-5-async-logic)**
```

> Use async logic in Redux with [Redux "thunk" middleware](https://github.com/reduxjs/redux-thunk) for handling things like login, data fetching, and handling loading state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use async logic with [Redux "thunk" middleware](https://github.com/reduxjs/redux-thunk) for handling things like login, data fetching, and handling loading state.
```

**[Redux Learning Resources](https://redux.js.org/introduction/learning-resources)**

> Further resources to learn Redux.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional resources to learn Redux.
```

---
layout: blog_post
title: Use Redux to Manage Authenticated State in a React App
author: gabi-dombrowski
by: contractor
communities: [javascript]
description: "In this post, we'll create a project that manages authenticated state in a React application using TypeScript and state management. We'll compare state management options in React, and provide examples on when to use Redux, local state using useState, and React Context."
tags: [javascript, typescript, react, redux, authentication]
tweets:
  - "Overwhelmed by state management options in #react? Learn about Redux, useState, and React Context and when to use each in this post by @gabzilladev! 🎉"
image: blog/react-typescript-redux/social.jpg
type: conversion
github: https://github.com/oktadev/okta-react-typescript-redux-example
---

> There are a myriad of state management options available for React. React provides the option of using the built-in [Context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) for when you have a nested tree of components that share a state. There is also a built-in [useState hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) that will allow you to set local state for a component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a myriad of state management options available for React. React provides the option of using the built-in [Context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) for when you have a nested tree of components that share a state. There is also a built-in [useState hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html#usestate) that will allow you to set local state for a component.
```
correct URL

For more complex scenarios where you need a single source of truth that changes frequently and is shared across large sections of your application, consider using a more robust state management library.

> This walkthrough will get you started with a basic setup using Okta's redirect model to manage authenticated state and user profile information within a React app. It provides examples on when to use [Redux](https://redux.js.org/), local state using React's `useState` hook, or React Context. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This walkthrough will get you started with a basic setup using Okta's redirect model to manage authenticated state and user profile information within a React app. It provides examples on when to use [Redux](https://redux.js.org/) versus local state using React's `useState` hook versus React Context. 
```
for less ambiguity

**Prerequisites**

> As of the time of this publication, Create React App requires Node >= 14.0.0 and npm >= 5.6. You can check for the latest required versions at [https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html](https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of the time of this publication, *Create React App* requires Node >= 14.0.0 and npm >= 5.6. You can check for the latest required versions at [https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html](https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html).
```
italics on the first mention of a 'thing'

> **NOTE:** Redux also recommends you install the [Chrome React DevTools Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** Redux also recommends you install the [React Developer Tools] Chrome extension (https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en).
```
the way it is titled on the website

A **selector** returns a piece of the live Redux state as stored in the live Redux store.

**[Dispatch](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-1-overview-concepts#dispatch)**

**Dispatch** is a method that triggers an action, which in turn updates the Redux store.

## Add authentication using OAuth2 and OpenID Connect (OIDC)

For this demo app, we'll be using [Okta's SPA redirect model](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/sign-into-spa-redirect/react/main/) to authenticate and fetch user info.

{% include setup/cli.md type="spa" framework="React" loginRedirectUri="http://localhost:3000/login/callback" %}

1. Add the Okta SDKs to your project by running:
```bash
npm install @okta/okta-react@6.4 @okta/okta-auth-js@6.0
```

## TypeScript React application setup with Redux state management

1. Create a `.env` file to your root directory and add the following:
```bash
REACT_APP_OKTA_ISSUER=https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default
REACT_APP_OKTA_CLIENTID={yourOktaClientId}
REACT_APP_OKTA_BASE_REDIRECT_URI=http://localhost:3000
```

**NOTE:** Remember to not include your `.env` file in any version control for security reasons.

## Add authentication and create routes

> 1. Modify the existing `App.tsx` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify the existing `App.tsx` file:
```
Do we need the "1." ? There doesn't seem to be a "2."
